Hcibox data services (#1709)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_jumpstart_hcibox/SQLMI/_index.md

---
type: docs
weight: 100
toc_hide: true
---

# Jumpstart HCIBox - Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance

## Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance on Azure Stack HCI

Azure Stack HCI can provide host infrastructure for [Azure Kubernetes Service clusters](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure-stack/aks-hci/) which can be used to deploy Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance. HCIBox comes pre-configured with Azure Kubernetes Service on HCI (AKS-HCI) and an Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance. To see this in action, navigate to the resource group where you deployed HCIBox and follow these steps.

- You will first need to get the Azure Custom Location Resource Provider (RP) Object ID (OID). This is required to enable [Custom Location](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/platform/conceptual-custom-locations) on your Arc-enabled Kubernetes cluster.

>   > **NOTE: You need permissions to list all the service principals.**

Reviewer: Can we include the specific AAD permission needed here? Global admin or Security REader I believe?

  - **Option 1: Bash**

  ```bash
  az ad sp list --filter "displayname eq 'Custom Locations RP'" --query "[?appDisplayName=='Custom Locations RP'].id" -o tsv
  ```

  - **Option 2: PowerShell**

  ```powershell

>   az ad sp list --filter "displayname eq 'Custom Locations RP'" --query "[?appDisplayName=='Custom Locations RP'].id" -o tsv

Reviewer: Is the bash command any different than PowerShell? Looks the same... if so lets consolidate into one command that can be run with az cli (doesnt matter if its bash or powershell)?

  ```

  ![Screenshot showing running a cli command to get custom location objectId](./objectid_script.png)

- Open up Windows Explorer on the HCIBox-Client and navigate to the C:\HCIBox folder. From here, right click on the "Deploy-SQLMI.ps1" file and run with PowerShell.

  ![Screenshot showing running a cli command to get custom location objectId](./deploy_sqlmi_script.png)

- Enter the Azure Custom Location Resource Provider (RP) Object ID (OID) as generated by the previous step.

  ![Screenshot showing a prompt to enter the custom location objectId](./objectid_prompt.png)

  ![Screenshot showing the prompt after entering the objectId](./objectid_prompt_enter.png)

  ![Screenshot showing the deploy-sqlmi script running](./deploy_sqlmi_script_running.png)

- Once this script completes, open the resource group and group by type to see the Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance deployed with HCIBox.

  ![Screenshot showing clusters in resource group](./rg_sqlmi.png)

## Connect to the Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance using Azure Data Studio

> Included in HCIBox, Azure Data Studio is installed and pre-configured on the AdminCenter computer to allow you to connect and manage your Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Data Studio is installed and pre-configured on the AdminCenter computer to allow you to connect and manage your Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance.
```

- To start, click on the Azure Data Studio shortcut on the desktop of the AdminCenter computer.

  ![Screenshot showing the azure data studio shortcut](./ads_shortcut.png)

- Connect to the pre-configured connection, and click _Enable Trust server certificate_

  ![Screenshot showing the connecting to the SQL Managed Instance](./ads_connect.png)

- Once connected, you can now browse to the sample AdventureWorks database.

  ![Screenshot showing the connecting to the sample AdventureWorks database](./adventureworks_browse.png)

## Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance stress simulation

> Included in HCIBox, is a dedicated SQL stress simulation tool named SqlQueryStress automatically installed for you on the Client VM. SqlQueryStress will allow you to generate load on the Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance that can be done used to showcase how the SQL database and services are performing as well as the HCI cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HCIBox includes a dedicated SQL stress simulation tool named SqlQueryStress automatically installed for you on the Client VM. SqlQueryStress will allow you to generate load on the Azure Arc-enabled SQL Managed Instance that can be done used to showcase how the SQL database and services are performing as well as the HCI cluster.
```
